


> Written with [StackEdit](https://stackedit.io/).

# Git for Data Scientists

## Basic Workflow

### What is version control?

A  **version control system**  is a tool that manages changes made to the files and directories in a project. Many version control systems exist; this lesson focuses on one called Git, which is used by many of the data science tools covered in our other lessons. Its strengths are:

-   Nothing that is saved to Git is ever lost, so you can always go back to see which results were generated by which versions of your programs.
    
-   Git automatically notifies you when your work conflicts with someone else's, so it's harder (but not impossible) to accidentally overwrite work.
    
-   Git can synchronize work done by different people on different machines, so it scales as your team does.
    

Version control isn't just for software: books, papers, parameter sets, and anything that changes over time or needs to be shared can and should be stored and shared using something like Git.

### Where does Git store information?

Each of your Git projects has two parts: the files and directories that you create and edit directly, and the extra information that Git records about the project's history. The combination of these two things is called a  **repository**.

Git stores all of its extra information in a directory called  `.git`  located in the root directory of the repository. Git expects this information to be laid out in a very precise way, so you should never edit or delete anything in  `.git`.

---

Suppose your home directory `/home/repl` contains a repository called `dental`, which has a sub-directory called `data`. Where is information about the history of the files in `/home/repl/dental/data`stored?

  Answers
- [ ]  `/home/repl/.git`
- [X] `/home/repl/dental/.git`
- [ ] `/home/repl/dental/data/.git`
- [ ] None of the above.

### How can I check the state of a repository?

When you are using Git, you will frequently want to check the  **status**  of your repository. To do this, run the command  `git status`, which displays a list of the files that have been modified since the last time changes were saved.

---
You have been put in the `dental`repository. Use `git status` to discover which file(s) have been changed since the last save. Which file(s) are listed?

##### Possible Answers

- [ ]   `data/summer.csv`.
    
-   [X] `report.txt`.
    
-   [ ] Neither of the above.
    
-   [ ] Both of the above.

### How can I tell what I have changed?

Git has a  **staging area**  in which it stores files with changes you want to save that haven't been saved yet. Putting files in the staging area is like putting things in a box, while  **committing**  those changes is like putting that box in the mail: you can add more things to the box or take things out as often as you want, but once you put it in the mail, you can't make further changes.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTc0MzM0MzY1OV19
-->